# Linux_Architecture
Detailed description of Linux

What we mean by ‘binding as a communication medium between your hardware devices and your software’ is that it is the operating system software that directly manages all of your hardware resources or peripheral devices connected to it. First released by Linux Torvalds on September 17, 1991, Linux kernel is an open source and free operating system based on Linux. It is the heart of the operating system that takes care of fundamental functions, including hardware communication with software. Peripheral devices, such as smartphones and other computers, can be altered and created in Linux. It is the operating system software that directly manages all of your hardware resources or peripheral devices connected to it. A kernel is a program that acts as a center of the operating system that processes basic fundamental functions, such as hardware communication. A distribution is an operating system version that has been modified by the user. It is possible to create & distribute operating systems in addition to computers, smartphones, and other peripheral devices. A server is a common application, but it may also be used in desktop computers, e-book readers, and consoles, etc.

Aside from being a freely available open source alternative to Microsoft’s operating system, Linux is fantastic and extraordinarily talented computer programmers’ work. It is flexible, scalable, and robust. Linux is well-suited to programming and other fields of endeavor. Because it lacks application support, Linux is regarded as less user-friendly than other operating systems. Linux is similar to the Linux Kernel plus all of its utilities, libraries, and tools that are in charge of the GNU project.

What is the Linux operating system?

Despite the fact that the Linux kernel is the key component in the operating system, most of the components are open source. Linux is one of the only open source operating systems, and the kernel is the hub of the operation. The bootloader, graphical server, daemons, desktop environment, and application software all play a part in the Linux operating system. Linux, unlike other operating systems, is successful for its various advantages, including ease of use and acquisition, higher security, more customization options, less maintenance, available on any brand’ devices, and stable, to name a few.
